# PWI Population Projections

[Population Wellbeing Initiative](https://sites.utexas.edu/pwi/) (PWI) projections and code from "Simulating the Long-Run Population Impacts of Child Mortality Reductions" by Sangita Vyas and Gage Weston (2023 working paper)

### What is this program?

This program uses python to run the cohort component method to project population from 2025 until any given date. You can define different 'treatments' which can alter the population size, fertility rates, or mortality rates and compare the effect of these treatments with the baseline projection where this treatment doesn't happen. We use fertility and mortality conditions from the United Nations World Population Prospects from 2025 until 2100, after which the program generates its own projections based on user input. 

This program was last updated May 2023. It was primarily written by Gage Weston, a researcher at Population Wellbeing Initiative at University of Texas at Austin as of May 2023, with help from Sangita Vyas at CUNY Hunter College. You may contact Gage at gage@weston.co for issues or questions about the code.

### This repository contains:

WPP_input_data.csv: demographic projections from UN WPP zero-migration variant (2022 version) for years 2025-2100, re-formatted for our program.
population_projections.ipynb: A jupyter notebook containing the python code to run the projections alongside instructions for how to use this program. Run code in the section "Replicate Our Projections" to generate 'output.csv'.
output.csv: projections generated by our program which are used in our paper
figures.do: Stata program that generates the figures from our paper using output.csv.

### About PWI

PWI is an interdisciplinary research organization at University of Texas at Austin studying the long-term causes, consequences, and moral and political implications of low fertility and depopulation across the world.
